# Comparting performance between Blender and Three.js

I know  that both tools is designed to do very different things. But of course that exists kinds of tasks that are exactly the same in both platforms. And the visualization is one of them and is how tools will be used in this experiment.

I Blender you can visualizes the 3d stuffs in a way to *manipulate and build* it. The 3d visualization is a *mean* by which you delivers a definitve product, which is a 3d shot, video animation or product to post-production. Different than the Three.js that is designed to *consume and interact* it. The 3d visualization in Three.js is the *definitive product*. This is worth to mention when comparting performance.

To *manipulate and build* things in 3d space, Blender offer on the go both `Eevee` and `Cycles` as rendering engines that can be used on realtime during *manipulating and building* your 3d work. `Eevee` is more designed to be used as realtime rendering, so it is extremelly lightweigh, but also is capable to offers stunning high quality renderings scenes depending on the kind of the scene. `Cycles` is designed to be a *refined rendering solution*, offering tools required to have fine control in simulating real world lights phenomena, more suitable to final shots and video creation. But also pretty capable to works in realtime 3d rendering, if deep fine precision is not required on the go.

There are no issues in manipulating the spheres in 3d space in Blender, both in Eevee and Cycles. In fact, depending on the way to choose to create 10.000 cubes in Blender can be painfull and takes 38 minutes even in a computer with a very powerfull processor. More details in [blender/sphere_of_cubes.md](blender/sphere_of_cubes.md). But once the 10.000 is created no issues is found and inspecting the cubes is a very lightweight processes in memory. O terms of processing, also can be lightweight if you do not perform a fine realtime rendering engine like Cycles rendering, but even doing so, the process is very confortable, as in realtime rendering mode, Cycles aplies a bunch of optimizations that makes the 3d scene manipulating work very confortable.

By the other hand, checking 10.000 cubes in Three.js is little cumbersome. In computer shipping i7-12700H, the fps at manipulation was very unstable. Not measured but by eye it may bw rendering the scene at little less than 15 fps. Strange enough, that the GPU usage graph does not got beyond 10%. In i7-1165G7, the computer couldn't stand! The browser simply close, which indicates some kind of fatal error, very likely caused by some memory overflow. So this is why I also setted ad 3d scene for three.js with just 2.000 cubes.
